Tracking The Pandemic: Are Coronavirus Cases Rising Or Falling In Your State? ['Connie Hanzhang Jin', 'Alyson Hurt', 'Thomas Wilburn', 'Daniel Wood', 'Stephanie Adeline', 'Ruth Talbot']
Tracking The Pandemic: Are Coronavirus Cases Rising Or Falling In Your State?
In the graphics below, explore the trend in new cases in your state to see whether cases are rising, falling or staying level.
To jump to a map of total cases and deaths by state, click here.
To compare state outbreaks, the trend lines for average new daily cases are graphed against each state's total case count to date.
Arizona, which had leveled off at around 15,000 total cases in May, saw a sudden increase in new cases in June.
Midwest: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By State ['Rachel Treisman']
Midwest: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By StateEnlarge this image toggle caption Charlie Riedel/AP Charlie Riedel/APPart of a series on coronavirus-related restrictions across the United States.
Health care facilities may resume certain elective surgeries for non-life-threatening conditions beginning May 1, in accordance with public health guidance.
A two-week stay-at-home order issued April 6 extended earlier restrictions such as those limiting on-site restaurant, bar, and nightclub operations.
One expands the health care workforce by easing some requirements for certain medical licensees, allowing out-of-state health care providers to practice in Kansas and extending liability protections to health care workers responding to COVID-19.
Under phase one, medical providers can provide non-emergency health care at their discretion, in accordance with state public health and safety guidelines.
Northeast: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By State ['Rachel Treisman']
Northeast: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By StateEnlarge this image toggle caption Steven Senne/AP Steven Senne/APPart of a series on coronavirus-related restrictions across the United States.
On April 28, Mills introduced a modified stay-at-home order effective through May 31 and introduced a plan to gradually lift certain restrictions.
Mills issued an executive order mandating that all travelers entering Maine, regardless of their state of residency, self-quarantine for 14 days.
An April 28 executive order directs executive branch agencies to pause hiring and nonessential out of state travel.
Andrew Cuomo mandated that all nonessential workers stay home as part of the "New York State on Pause" executive order.
South: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By State ['Rachel Treisman']
South: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By StateEnlarge this image toggle caption Wilfredo Lee/AP Wilfredo Lee/APPart of a series on coronavirus-related restrictions across the United States.
The state is urging citizens with health care and child care experience to join its emergency workforce.
Kemp extended the public health state of emergency through June 12, and has ordered elderly and medically vulnerable individuals to continue sheltering in place until then.
He signed an executive order modifying the stay-at-home order and transitioning the state into Phase 1 of easing restrictions, effective 5:00 p.m. on May 8.
The track can reopen no sooner than June 26, and must submit a plan for approval by the state health department.
West: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By State ['Rachel Treisman']
West: Coronavirus-Related Restrictions By StateEnlarge this image toggle caption Mead Gruver/AP Mead Gruver/APThis is part of a series about coronavirus-related restrictions across the United States.
Penalties for intentionally breaking the stay-at-home order include a fine of up to $5,000, a year in prison, or both.
The week of April 20, Little issued proclamations extending previous emergency declarations and waiving additional regulatory restrictions on telehealth and behavioral health services.
An April 22 directive makes it easier for retired health care professionals and providers licensed out-of-state to join Montana's health care workforce.
A modified public health order was extended through May 31, and lifted certain restrictions beginning May 16.
U.S. Hits 2 Million Coronavirus Cases As Many States See A Surge Of Patients ['Bill Chappell', 'Rob Stein']
Hits 2 Million Coronavirus Cases As Many States See A Surge Of PatientsEnlarge this image toggle caption Eric Gay/AP Eric Gay/APThe U.S. has reached another dire landmark in its fight against COVID-19, surpassing 2 million confirmed cases on Wednesday.
Public health experts say these surges should not be dismissed as a result of more testing.
But North Carolina is now averaging more than 1,000 cases daily — well above its daily average of 517 just three weeks ago.
And with states now pushing to return to normal, public health experts are concerned.
"I'm definitely worried," says Dr. Bill Miller the senior associate dean for research at Ohio State University's college of public health.
Biden Outlines Plan To Restart Economy, Including Testing Every Worker ['Sam Gringlas']
Biden Outlines Plan To Restart Economy, Including Testing Every WorkerEnlarge this image toggle caption Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images Jim Watson/AFP via Getty ImagesUpdated at 6:25 p.m.
"The failure to respond to the pandemic, I think the federal government has abdicated any effective leadership role."
Governors and mayors across the country are lifting restrictions and reopening even as COVID-19 cases continue mounting in many states.
Biden has slowly been resuming in-person campaigning, mostly within driving distance of his home in Wilmington, Del.
At the beginning of June, Biden met with black faith leaders in Wilmington, his first in-person event in over two months.
Coachella Festival Canceled In 2020, Says Public Health Commissioner ['Anastasia Tsioulcas']
Coachella Festival Canceled In 2020, Says Public Health CommissionerEnlarge this image toggle caption Valerie Macon/AFP via Getty Images Valerie Macon/AFP via Getty ImagesUpdated Thursday at 6:28 p.m.
ETThe popular annual music festival Coachella and its country music sibling, Stagecoach, have both been canceled for 2020.
While the events' promoter, Goldenvoice, has not yet made a public announcement, the cancellation order was released Wednesday evening by the public health officer of Riverside County, Calif.
In March, the festivals' organizers announced that both Coachella and Stagecoach would be delayed until October.
The scheduled headliners for the canceled 2020 festivals included Rage Against the Machine, Travis Scott and Frank Ocean for Coachella and Thomas Rhett, Carrie Underwood and Eric Church for Stagecoach.
This List Of Books, Films And Podcasts About Racism Is A Start, Not A Panacea ['Isabella Rosario']
This List Of Books, Films And Podcasts About Racism Is A Start, Not A PanaceaEnlarge this image toggle caption Basic Books, Verso, and Little Brown Spark Basic Books, Verso, and Little Brown SparkAs of Friday, 15 of the top 20 bestselling books on Amazon were about race or racism.
To help people be better allies, lists of antiracist books, films and podcasts are being published in droves.
So, with that in mind, we've compiled a list of books, films and podcasts about systemic racism, acknowledging that they are just books, films and podcasts.
Black America Since MLK: And Still I RiseIn this two-part series, Henry Louis Gates, Jr. chronicles the last 50 years of black history through a personal lens.
To understand the history of systemic racism in America, we recommend "American Police," "Mass Incarceration" and "Milliken v.
Arizona Faces Spike In Coronavirus Cases As Top Health System Runs Low On ICU Beds []
Arizona Faces Spike In Coronavirus Cases As Top Health System Runs Low On ICU BedsArizona's largest hospital system is nearing ICU bed capacity as coronavirus cases surge.
Will Humble, the state's ex-health chief, urges a new executive order requiring Arizonans to wear face masks.
Runs Out of ICU Beds."
In fact, the state has not run out of ICU beds.
Rather, the state's largest hospital system says it is near ICU bed capacity.
Trump Team Killed Rule Designed To Protect Health Workers From Pandemic Like COVID-19 ['Brian Mann']
There are still no specific federal regulations protecting health care workers from deadly airborne pathogens such as influenza, tuberculosis or the coronavirus.
Thousands of Americans died and dozens of health care workers got sick.
Those rules, implemented during the HIV/AIDS epidemic, forced the health care industry to adopt safety plans and buy more equipment designed to protect staff and patients.
An emphasis on deregulationIn the spring of 2017, the Trump team formally stripped OSHA's airborne infectious disease rule from the regulatory agenda.
The impact on the federal effort to protect health care workers from diseases such as COVID-19 was immediate.
'Us Vs. Them' In A Pandemic: Researchers Warn Divisions Could Get Dangerous ['Hannah Allam']
Them' In A Pandemic: Researchers Warn Divisions Could Get DangerousEnlarge this image toggle caption Paul Sancya/AP Paul Sancya/APAs the pandemic moves from public health crisis to partisan flashpoint, the debate over the coronavirus response in the U.S. is becoming increasingly nasty – and, in some cases, violent.
And armed right-wing groups have threatened contact tracers and people who they say "snitch" on neighbors and businesses violating health orders.
But there are fears that the pandemic — especially landing in an election year — has the potential to inflame divisions to dangerous levels if left unchecked.
"Trump recognizes that by talking about masking in a certain way, he can play on an identity," Kleinfeld said.
"And yet there's polling in the last two weeks, last week, in the United States that across the Republican-Democratic divide, the majority of Americans recognize that there's a public health crisis and we have to do something about it."
A Colorado Restaurant Hosted A Crowd On Mother's Day. It's Now Been Closed Down ['Bill Chappell']
A Colorado Restaurant Hosted A Crowd On Mother's Day.
ETPublic health officials closed a restaurant in Castle Rock, Colo., on Monday, one day after its owner hosted a Mother's Day event in which the entire dining room was open to seat customers — most of whom weren't wearing face masks.
But the local health department shut down the restaurant Monday, saying its owners had ignored a warning not to open their dining room.
"The restaurant was ordered to close immediately" around midday Monday, the Tri-County Health Department said in a statement to NPR.
Jared Polis said Monday that like many Coloradans, he hasn't seen his mother in weeks — and he wasn't able to take her out on Mother's Day.
Los Angeles City And County Offer Free Coronavirus Testing To All Residents ['Scott Neuman']
Los Angeles City And County Offer Free Coronavirus Testing To All ResidentsEnlarge this image toggle caption Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Marcio Jose Sanchez/APLos Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Wednesday that all city and county residents who want a coronavirus test can now get one for the first time since COVID-19 cases began appearing there in January.
The Los Angeles County Health Department confirmed another 1,541 cases — its largest single-day increase since the start of the pandemic.
Los Angeles County now has a total of nearly 22,500 confirmed cases — accounting for nearly half of California's more than 46,000.
Garcetti said Los Angeles currently accounts for about 9% of all the tests nationwide.
NPR's Adrian Florido in Los Angeles contributed to this report.
Coronavirus Crisis Spurs Access To Online Treatment For Opioid Addiction ['Phil Galewitz']
Coronavirus Crisis Spurs Access To Online Treatment For Opioid AddictionEnlarge this image toggle caption Ian Hooton/Getty Images/Science Photo Library Ian Hooton/Getty Images/Science Photo LibraryOpioid addiction isn't taking a break during the coronavirus pandemic.
But the U.S. response to the viral crisis is making addiction treatment easier to get.
Years before the emergency regulations were issued, Bright Heart — along with several other telemedicine counseling providers — began offering opioid addiction treatment and counseling via telemedicine, even if they couldn't prescribe initial medication for addiction.
While fewer than 5% of Anthem patients seeking addiction treatment use telemedicine, the company expects the option to become more common.
Several insurers across the country — including Aetna and Blue Cross Blue Shield companies such as Anthem — have begun covering the telemedicine addiction service.
Swedish Ambassador Says Stockholm Expected To Reach 'Herd Immunity' In May ['H.J. Mai']
Swedish Ambassador Says Stockholm Expected To Reach 'Herd Immunity' In MayEnlarge this image toggle caption Anders Wiklund/TT News Agency/AFP via Getty Images Anders Wiklund/TT News Agency/AFP via Getty ImagesSweden's ambassador to the U.S. believes the country's controversial strategy of imposing only limited restrictions — and not locking down the country — is bearing success, with the capital, Stockholm, on course to reach herd immunity in the next few weeks.
"About 30% of people in Stockholm have reached a level of immunity," Karin Ulrika Olofsdotter told NPR.
"We could reach herd immunity in the capital as early as next month."
Herd immunity means the majority of a given population has become immune to an infectious disease either by recovering from it or through vaccination.
Some researchers have put the threshold for coronavirus herd immunity at 60% in some areas.
Across America, Frustrated Protesters Rally To Reopen The Economy ['Kirk Siegler']
Across America, Frustrated Protesters Rally To Reopen The EconomyEnlarge this image toggle caption Jim Mone/AP Jim Mone/APUtah is one of only a few states without statewide COVID-19 restrictions.
Still, Eric Moutsos, a former police officer who now works in solar energy, says the economy has ground to a halt anyway.
"All of those jobs have completely stopped business to where we can't be paid now," Moutsos says.
Davidson says there still isn't enough testing capacity to reopen large parts of the economy in many states.
We assume that we're in better shape than we are and we reopen too quickly," he says.
Who's Hit Hardest By COVID-19? Why Obesity, Stress And Race All Matter ['Allison Aubrey']
Why Obesity, Stress And Race All MatterEnlarge this image toggle caption Bloomberg via Getty Images Bloomberg via Getty ImagesAs data emerges on the spectrum of symptoms caused by COVID-19, it's clear that people with chronic health conditions are being hit harder.
So, one reason COVID-19 is taking its toll on people who have obesity is that their overall health is often compromised.
She says when a person experiences racial discrimination, it can contribute to chronic stress.
"And chronic stress can make one more vulnerable to infection because it can lower your body's ability to fight off an infection," she says.
Chronic stress is linked to poverty — so this could be a risk factor for low-income communities.
Trump To Announce Advisory Council On Reopening The Country, Shuttered By Coronavirus ['Philip Ewing']
Trump To Announce Advisory Council On Reopening The Country, Shuttered By CoronavirusEnlarge this image toggle caption Evan Vucci/AP Evan Vucci/APUpdated at 4:36 p.m.
But the United States expects to add new tools to help it battle the coronavirus, including tests and treatments, so the model for a response will change over time.
Second, Redfield said, the United States must vastly expand contact tracing to find people who are connected with those who become infected.
That hurts the oil industry, and Trump already has warned about layoffs in the energy sector in the United States.
Mexico would then "reimburse" the United States later for whatever accommodation Washington makes now on oil production, Trump said.
Tips For Starting Or Continuing Mental Health Care From Home ['Lauren Hodges']
Tips For Starting Or Continuing Mental Health Care From HomeAs states issue stay-at-home orders to combat the coronavirus, people are struggling with anxiety, stress and depression.
NPR's Life Kit explains how to start or continue mental health care from home.
MARY LOUISE KELLY, HOST:More than 4 out of 5 adults say the coronavirus pandemic has affected their mental health.
Mental health care seems out of reach if you've lost your insurance or your main source of income.
It is actually 45% who reported a toll on their mental health.]
This Quebec Health Official Has Become A Sensation With His Coronavirus Tips ['Emma Jacobs']
This Quebec Health Official Has Become A Sensation With His Coronavirus TipsA month ago, Dr. Horacio Arruda was a relatively unknown bureaucrat in the Canadian province of Quebec.
In this age of the coronavirus, Quebec's latest celebrity is a senior health official, who delivers down-to-earth advice in French and English in widely watched daily briefings.
Arruda, a 59-year-old doctor, is the province's director of public health, and his conversational style has charmed Quebecers.
"He's like the dad who's telling you not to panic," says Valérie Morency, a children's book illustrator in Montreal.
Morency made drawings of Arruda to color in that have been widely shared online.
Which States Are Reopening? A State-By-State Guide ['Rachel Treisman']
Which States Are Reopening?
But as of May 20, all 50 states have begun the process of easing restrictions on businesses, though public health experts say that some are doing so too quickly.
State officials are charting paths to a new normal, seeking a balance between reopening economies and protecting public health.
NPR is tracking developments in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia so you can see what's changed and how states compare.
Other states, such as Virginia, New Mexico and Utah, have delayed reopening timelines for particular counties based on public health metrics.
Pregnant Women Worry About Pandemic's Impact On Labor, Delivery And Babies ['Sacha Pfeiffer']
Pregnant Women Worry About Pandemic's Impact On Labor, Delivery And BabiesEnlarge this image toggle caption Jasper Jacobs/AFP via Getty Images Jasper Jacobs/AFP via Getty ImagesAmong the people whose lives are being turned upside down by the coronavirus are many pregnant women.
Through "elective ripening of the cervix," the hospital can prepare those women to be induced before their due dates.
Several physicians interviewed by NPR cautioned that early inductions can fail, forcing pregnant women to have cesarean sections.
Some pregnant women are wondering if they should avoid hospitals entirely and instead opt to give birth at home or in a birthing center.
That's because earlier this month some New York hospitals told pregnant women they couldn't have any support person during childbirth.
ICU Bed Capacity Varies Widely Nationwide ['Robert Benincasa']
NPR found that ICU bed capacity varies widely across the United States.
ICU beds are especially important now because they are the hospital units typically equipped to treat patients with respiratory problems that require ventilators.
And, he says, there is "absolutely no standard," for critical care beds nationally.
Wallace says even his own research into counting ICU beds is an oversimplification because intensive care units themselves vary so widely.
"It's in the national interest to have hospitals and intensive care capacity in places that are not profitable," he says.
FACT CHECK: Trump Says 50,000 Could Die From Flu. ['Scott Hensley']
FACT CHECK: Trump Says 50,000 Could Die From Flu.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Alex Brandon/AP Alex Brandon/APPresident Trump has drawn repeated comparisons between the novel coronavirus outbreak and the flu season.
The reality so far for the current flu season is still emerging.
The CDC estimates there have been at least 38 million flu illnesses and 390,000 hospitalizations.
The CDC estimates are based on weekly surveillance data and are preliminary.
Pregnant And Worried About Coronavirus? How To Stay Safe And Make A Game Plan ['Katherine Harmon Courage']
And health care providers are game-planning with mothers about how to best manage care in light of growing limits on public contact.
This issue raises challenging decisions for families and health care providers.
Their health care provider can advise best steps for care and testing.
Synthesizing all of that information will likely take additional time, but it will eventually help better guide public health and health care recommendations.
"We keep pregnant women and their newborns safer by keeping everyone around them healthy as well," Pilliod says.
Coronavirus Threatens Rural Hospitals Already At The Financial Brink ['Lauren Weber']
The American Hospital Association responded Thursday by asking Congress for $100 billion for all hospitals to offset coronavirus costs, citing rural hospitals' inability to withstand huge losses for long.
"If we're not able to address the short-term cash needs of rural hospitals, we're going to see hundreds of rural hospitals close before this crisis ends," warned Alan Morgan, the head of the National Rural Health Association, which represents 21,000 health care providers and hospitals.
Given such pressures, more than 120 rural hospitals have been forced to close over the past decade.
"We can talk all we want about the cost of health care in this country in this ridiculous health care system we have," she says.
"But at a time like this, who for a minute would think about getting rid of rural hospitals?"
Gov. Gavin Newsom Orders Californians To Stay At Home ['Leila Fadel']
Gavin Newsom Orders Californians To Stay At HomeAs the state tries to contain the coronavirus, the governor told the 40 million people who live in the state not to go out.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)GAVIN NEWSOM: A state as large as ours, a nation-state, is many parts.
And there are also exemptions for critical federal infrastructure sectors, and that's things like health care, transportation, emergency response, food and agriculture.
Do people in the health care industry feel like this order will be effective in preventing that?
VIVEK JAIN: We're very supportive of those aggressive public health interventions, and as health care workers at the hospitals, we're here, and we're ready to take care of everybody.
'They're Feeling Invincible': White House Steps Up Warnings To Young Adults ['Sam Gringlas']
At White House briefings this week, Dr. Deborah Birx, coordinator for the White House's coronavirus task force, has expressed concerns that not everyone is taking social distancing guidance to heart.
"We are asking every single American, no matter what your generation, from Z and up to X, and millennials in between, to really ensure that you're following these guidelines," Birx told reporters on Tuesday.
"We don't want [young people] gathering, and I see they do gather, including on beaches, including in restaurants — young people," Trump said.
And this month, Trump told Fox News, "We have thousands or hundreds of thousands of people that get better, just by, you know, sitting around and even going to work."
"I'm the mom of two wonderful millennial young women who are bright and hardworking," Birx said this week.
Coronavirus Forces Bureau To Suspend Census Field Operations Until April 1 ['Hansi Lo Wang']
Coronavirus Forces Bureau To Suspend Census Field Operations Until April 1Enlarge this image toggle caption Amr Alfiky/NPR Amr Alfiky/NPRUpdated March 19 at 9:25 a.m.
ETThe coronavirus pandemic is forcing the U.S. Census Bureau to temporarily suspend all field operations for the 2020 census for two weeks until April 1, the agency announced Wednesday in a statement on its website.
The bureau confirmed to NPR on Saturday that at least one employee, who was hired to be a census field supervisor, has tested positive for COVID-19 and is in quarantine.
"The employee is following guidance of the Iowa Department of Public Health," Michael Cook, a spokesperson for the bureau, said in a follow-up email on Sunday.
"By responding now, you will ensure that the Census Bureau does not need to send a census worker to your door."
Global Deaths From Coronavirus Surpass 6,000 ['Scott Neuman']
Global Deaths From Coronavirus Surpass 6,000Enlarge this image toggle caption Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu Agency via Getty ImagesUpdated at 9:11 p.m.
ETWith the number of cases worldwide of the novel coronavirus surpassing 150,000, with some 6,000 deaths, governments across the globe continue their struggle to contain the pandemic.
Officials in Italy have reported some 3,600 new cases and 368 deaths in the past 24 hours, bringing the total number of infections there to nearly 25,000 and some 1,800 deaths.
Italy is second in the number of reported infections and deaths only to China, where the epidemic was first identified in December.
In Spain, the total number of confirmed infections now exceeds 7,800 cases with 282 deaths.
Lawmakers Press Administration For More Transparency About Coronavirus Response ['Kelsey Snell', 'Claudia Grisales', 'Miles Parks']
Lawmakers Press Administration For More Transparency About Coronavirus ResponseEnlarge this image toggle caption Mark Wilson/Getty Images Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesSome of the most senior government officials assigned to the coronavirus crisis briefed House lawmakers Friday, and assured them that the Trump administration is not impeding their work or their communications with the public.
Representatives on both sides of the aisle have lauded some aspects of the outbreak response, while voicing frustration with others.
He told lawmakers that the decision had to do with the changing leadership around the coronavirus this week.
"No one's being stifled, no one's being told what to say," Kudlow told reporters inside the White House.
Testing concernsAfter Friday's briefing, many members voiced frustration with the slow response from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, specifically related to testing for the coronavirus.
Trump Appoints Pence To Lead Government's Coronavirus Response ['Vanessa Romo']
Trump Appoints Pence To Lead Government's Coronavirus ResponseEnlarge this image toggle caption Evan Vucci/AP Evan Vucci/APUpdated at 10:17 p.m.
ETHours after the White House rejected the idea of appointing a coronavirus czar, President Trump on Wednesday put Vice President Pence in charge of the administration's response to the disease.
He took credit for making "very good early decisions" that helped prevent the new coronavirus from becoming more widespread in the United States.
Pence praised the president for the current containment strategy, including travel restrictions, quarantine measures and assembling of a coronavirus task force "that has been meeting every day."
As of Wednesday, the coronavirus disease COVID-19, which was first diagnosed in Hubei province in mainland China, has reached 37 other countries, according to World Health Organization officials.
Doctors Push Back As Congress Takes Aim At Surprise Medical Bills ['Rachana Pradhan']
Doctors Push Back As Congress Takes Aim At Surprise Medical BillsEnlarge this image toggle caption Hannah Norman/Kaiser Health News Hannah Norman/Kaiser Health NewsWhen Carol Pak-Teng, an emergency room doctor in New Jersey, hosted a fundraiser in December for Democratic freshman Rep. Tom Malinowski, her guests, mostly doctors, were pleased when she steered the conversation to surprise medical bills.
As surprise medical billing has emerged as a hot-button issue for voters, doctors, hospitals and insurers have been lobbying to protect their own bottom line.
Her congressman, Malinowski, has not endorsed any surprise billing legislation.
I don't see any philosophical difference amongst us about whether people should be stuck with massive surprise medical bills."
"Frankly, they have an easier time lobbying members [of Congress] than the folks who are affected by surprise billing."
Why They're Called 'Wet Markets' — And What Health Risks They Might Pose ['Jason Beaubien']
Why They're Called 'Wet Markets' — And What Health Risks They Might PoseEnlarge this image toggle caption Jason Beaubien/NPR Jason Beaubien/NPRA "wet market" in Wuhan, China, is catching the blame as the probable source of the current coronavirus outbreak that's sweeping the globe.
The complex of stalls selling live fish, meat and wild animals is known in the region as a "wet market."
I visited the Tai Po wet market in Hong Kong, and it's quite obvious why the term "wet" is used.
Scenes From The Shekou 'Wet Market' In Shenzhen, China Hide caption Wet markets really are wet — as shown by the floor by a seafood vendor's stand in the Shekou market in the southern coastal city of Shenzhen, China.
Previous Next Laurel Chor for NPRHide caption A cat naps in front of a store next to the wet market.
News Brief: Impeachment Trial, Coronavirus, U.K.-Huawei Deal ['Noel King', 'Steve Inskeep']
News Brief: Impeachment Trial, Coronavirus, U.K.-Huawei DealThe Q&A session in the Senate impeachment trial continues.
LIASSON: So in other words, if the president thinks his reelection is in the public interest - and what president wouldn't think that...KING: Right.
KING: OK. Aside from the shift in defense strategy, there was also, yesterday, a big disagreement about what constitutes campaign interference.
(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)KING: There are now more than 7,700 confirmed cases of the coronavirus - most of them in China.
Now in this instance, the coronavirus, at least 170 people have died since the outbreak started in December.
A $41,212 Surgery Bill Compounded A Patient's Appendicitis Pain ['Julie Apple']
A $41,212 Surgery Bill Compounded A Patient's Appendicitis PainEnlarge this image toggle caption Logan Cyrus for KHN Logan Cyrus for KHNJoshua Bates knew something was seriously wrong.
Share your medical billing story Do you have a medical bill you'd like us to investigate?
Total bill: $41,212 covering the surgery, one night at the hospital and the emergency room charges.
A recent study found that about 18% of emergency room visits have at least one such charge for out-of-network care.
Congress last year debated several bills that would have provided federal protection nationwide, especially for emergency room patients.
Most Americans Are Lonely, And Our Workplace Culture May Not Be Helping ['Elena Renken']
Most Americans Are Lonely, And Our Workplace Culture May Not Be Helpingtoggle caption Estelle Johnson/EyeEm/Getty ImagesMore than three in five Americans are lonely, with more and more people reporting feeling like they are left out, poorly understood and lacking companionship, according to a new survey released Thursday.
Workplace culture and conditions may contribute to Americans' loneliness.
Pervasive loneliness "has widespread effects," says Bert Uchino, a professor at the University of Utah who studies relationships and health.
It's an urgent time for the study of loneliness, Uchino adds.
The report found people with good co-worker relationships were 10 points less lonely on the 80-point scale, and those who reported a good work-life balance were less lonely as well.
Chinese Health Officials: More Die From Newly Identified Coronavirus ['Emily Feng']
Chinese Health Officials: More Die From Newly Identified CoronavirusChinese health authorities held a briefing Wednesday on a new coronavirus thought to have originated in Wuhan, China.
They don't want to cause a panic, but they're also trying to educate the public in how to protect themselves.
Some top Chinese health official held a press conference today that NPR went to.
FENG: So they've been really, really strict in controlling information about the virus.
And then most infamously, in 2003, SARS, which ended up killing more than 800 people, but the Chinese government denied.
Trump Administration Cracks Down On Some Flavored Vaping Products ['Sydney Lupkin']
Trump Administration Cracks Down On Some Flavored Vaping ProductsEnlarge this image toggle caption Daniel Acker/Bloomberg via Getty Images Daniel Acker/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesUpdated 6:14 p.m.
ETThe Trump administration announced it will crack down on certain vaping products containing fruit, mint and other e-cigarette flavors to keep them away from kids.
Rep. Frank Pallone Jr., D-N.J., said in a statement that the move "falls far short" of what the Trump administration promised last year.
"Unfortunately, the Trump administration caved to industry lobbying pressure and decided to prioritize politics over people's health."
"When the tobacco industry introduced us to tobacco products, it promised that they were safe, that they were of no harm.
7 Women's Health Topics We Need To Talk About In 2020 ['Emily Vaughn']
7 Women's Health Topics We Need To Talk About In 2020Enlarge this image Fancy/Veer/Corbis/Getty Images Fancy/Veer/Corbis/Getty ImagesAs the decade changes and we consider the state of women's health in America, who better to turn to than the authors of five taboo-busting books from 2019 that took on issues that generations of women haven't been talking about, but need to.
We asked these outspoken doctors and health advocates to give us their Top 7 messages to women for 2020.
Hill wants to see more investment into research and development of better birth control.
Hormonal birth control influences the brain in ways that make people uncomfortable to acknowledge, she says, including whom a woman finds attractive as a mate and, to some degree, how she responds to stress.
Women's rights are human rightsJennifer Weiss-Wolf is fighting to end what she calls the "tampon tax," which still exists in 32 states.
Grim And Hopeful Global Trends To Watch In 2020 (And Fold Into A Zine) ['Npr Staff']
Make This Global Trends 2020 Zine This zine highlights some of our global predictions for 2020.
To prevent outbreaks, the World Health Organization says that roughly 95% of a community needs to be vaccinated against measles.
Over the past couple of years, he and a growing number of global health staffers have been working to make a change.
At the university level, students are calling on faculty to acknowledge the field's colonial history in global health curriculum.
And in January, graduate students at Duke University are organizing a conference called Decolonizing Global Health 2020.
